VPC
max/16
min/28 
Some private IPS
192.168.0.0
172.16.0.0
10.0.0.0
CIDR
Classical inter domain range
Subnets are cannot be larger than VPC
To change the vpc you must terminate your existing VPC and create new one

one VPC have oneIGW
It is a communication between instances in VPC and internet

tenancy types
shared
dedicated 

VPC is regional specific

Subnet is avalibility zone

per region 5vpc

per subnet 200 ip

5 ELP elastic ip

VPC STRUCTure
----------------
1 IGW - will connects with VPC
2 Route tables will connects with AZ
3 NACLs will connects with AZS
4 NAT gate way will be with Public subnet

after creation of vpc need to add enable setting as auto assign public ip option

----------------------------------------------
what are the difference between NACL and security groups?

Security groups are statefull NACLs are state less
In SG we will give inbound rules out bound rules will be automatically done by itself

comming to NACL We need to give Inbound and outbound rules
 
we had to block ip adress from NACL only

what is Subnet

subnet is creating bigger network into smaller network

we have two types of subnets
1 public subnet
2 private subnet

What is Elasticip

Elasic ip is static public ip.
are charged

What are Difference Between NATgateway and IGW

IGW is attached VPC to allow traffic from inernet to our EC2 instance

NAT gateway is placed at Public subnet for dowloading or acessing any internet in Private subnet through NAT gateway.
this NAT gate way is attached to out private subnet

What is NAT instance

NAT instance will do same but it has to maintain by us.
for NAT instance we need to go to community AMIs select NATAMI launch instance

Route Tables
-----------------
By creating VPC it will create one route table
for on subnet we need to connect with one route table only.
1 main route table


afer we need to create one custom route table to allow traffic
from internet


2 custom route table

our main and custom route table having one rule it is local that can talk with all instaces in the VPCs
we will attach our private subnet to our main route table and custom to our public subnet

------------------------------
creating VPc is two types
1 vpc wizard
2 vpc default

----------------------------
resrved IPs inAWS
0.0 : Network address.
0.1 : Reserved by AWS for the VPC router.
0.2 : Reserved by AWS. The IP address of the DNS server is the base of the VPC network range plus two. ...
0.3 : Reserved by AWS for future use.
0.255 : Network broadcast address.

------------------------------------
A VPC endpoint enables private connections between your VPC and supported AWS services and VPC endpoint services powered by AWS PrivateLink. A VPC endpoint does not require an internet gateway, NAT device, VPN connection, or AWS Direct Connect connection.

to acess AWS services privatlely with out internet can we do with vpc end points 

create end point for service which you want acess like s3 are dynamo db

Steps:-
1need to create policy for which bucket your giving acess or total s3
2 after that 
add vpc end point our private subnet
3 need to add route for subnet to s3
4 add this route to security group also
5 create i am role to ec2 through s3 bucket

-----------------------------------------
Flow logs

VPC Flow Logs is a feature that enables you to capture information about the IP traffic going to and from network interfaces in your VPC. Flow log data can be published to Amazon CloudWatch Logs or Amazon S3. After you've created a flow log, you can retrieve and view its data in the chosen destination.

we can create flow logs in 3 levels

1 vpc level
2 sub net level
3 ENI level 

we can send our logs to cloud watch for log analysis or we can send our logs s3 bucket based on our requirement.


