-----------------------------
mvn installation
mvn is declarative and having life cycles
but in ant we dont have it.

Build tools are programs that automate the creation of executable applications from source code
Examples: ant, maven,gradle java
            ms build .net
            c  Rmake, Cmake

What is build management?
conversion of sc into artificates

each modules consists of jar file in java

combination of jar we will get war file

waht is maven?

build is build management tool
documentation tool
dependency management tool
 

What is pom and what it contains?
POM is means project object model.The pom.xml file contains information of project and configuration information for the maven to build the project such as dependencies, build directory, source directory, test source directory, plugin, goals etc.
pom is configuration file for maven, for every product we have a configuration build file.

1 project information
2 build dependencies
3 goals
4 plugins
5 versions

pom.xml having information about the project.

life cycle of maven

maven contains default life cycle
every phase in life cycle called goal

different goals in maven
1 validate
1 compile
2 test
3 package
4 integration test
5 install
install our war file into maven repository like .m2
6 deploy
deploy phase will deploy into nexus repo
---------------
clean
site


difference between jar war ear
jar java archive file
combination of class file

war web archive file 
combination of many jar files and configuration file

ear enterprise archive
combination of war + licence file
-------------------------
setting of environment variable
 .bash_profile we will set envirnment variables
after that source .bash_profile

why it is important
------------------
pom.xml contains
1 coordiantes means project information
gid
artifact id
version id
in versioning _snopshot means project is in developing stage
if not it is in releaseing state
2 scm locations
3 dependencies
4 plugins
5 modules
6 distribution management
-----------------------------------------
https://mindmajix.com/maven-interview-questions

Archetype is a Maven project templating toolkit. An archetype is defined as an original pattern or model from which all other things of the same kind are made. The name fits as we are trying to provide a system that provides a consistent means of generating Maven projects. Archetype will help authors create Maven project templates for users, and provides users with the means to generate parameterized versions of those project template.
-------------------------------------------
