Having 3.4+ years of IT experience as DevOps Engineer and Software
Configuration activities and deployment activities for web-based
software application
Experienced in working on Agile operations process and tools area (Code
review, unit test automation, Build & Release automation, Environment,
Service, Incident and Change Management).
Experience and knowledge in AWS Cloud platform and its features which
includes EC2, VPC, ELB, EBS Volumes, AMI, IAM, S3, CloudWatch.
Extensive experience in using Version control systems includes GIT & GIT
HUB.
Experince in Working as a git adimn level activites like creating and protecting branch like UAT and Production
and adding collaberators to the branch.
Responsible for taking the source code and compiling using Maven and
package it in its distributable format such as a WAR file.
Expertise in build tools like Maven for building J2EE/Java application
artefacts and deploying it on multiple environments such as DEV, QA,
and UAT.
Responsible for storing our artifacts in S3 Buckets.
Experienced in Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for
purpose of continuous integration (CI)
Expericed in Creating master slave configurations in Jenkins.
Built end to end automation for all build and deployments and created
Jenkins CI pipelines.
Expertise in building pipeline and multibranch pipeline for our services in
development, staging, and pre-production environment by using the
integrated tool Jenkins.
Setting up continuous delivery framework using Jenkins.
Worked and supported on several java applications migrations to Jenkins
pipeline.
Knowledge on Docker container to create Docker images for different
environments.
Knowledge in the creation of Docker containers and Docker consoles for
managing the application life cycle
Knowledge in Creating custom Docker images using Docker file for easier
replication of DEV, QA Environments in local machines
Having good Experience in ANSIBLE for Deployment on Multiple
platforms.
Good Experience in ansible playbooks for deploying war files in our Environments by using Jenkins.
Knowledge on Configuring and monitoring technology like Cloud Watch.
Deployed the applications to Tomcat Application Server and static
content to Apache Web servers
Strong ability to troubleshoot any issues generated while building,
deploying and in Different Stages.
Good communication skills with the ability to interact with User and
development teams.
Actively involved in AGILE methodologies while executing the project
Hands-On experience with JIRA, an issue and project management
tracking tool
Efficient in working closely with teams to ensure high quality and timely
delivery of builds and releases.
Involved in Daily and Weekly status meetings, Send consolidated weekly
based report to PM by EOW